---
title: deadlock
sidebar_position: 0
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# deadlock

Use uprobe to trace pthread_mutex_lock and pthread_mutex_unlock in libc.so and detect potential deadlocks.

## Getting started

Running the gadget:

<Tabs groupId="env">
    <TabItem value="kubectl-gadget" label="kubectl gadget">
        ```bash
        $ kubectl gadget run ghcr.io/inspektor-gadget/gadget/deadlock:%IG_TAG% [flags]
        ```
    </TabItem>

    <TabItem value="ig" label="ig">
        ```bash
        $ sudo ig run ghcr.io/inspektor-gadget/gadget/deadlock:%IG_TAG% [flags]
        ```
    </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Flags

No flags.

## Guide

To generate mutex lock/unlock events, you can run a `test` program in another container.

For this example, we use a [test C++ program](https://github.com/iovisor/bcc/blob/master/tools/deadlock_example.txt#L187) (from BCC) with lock inversions that can cause a potential deadlock.

The deadlock gadget can trace all mutex lock/unlock events in the following way:
```bash
$ sudo ig run ghcr.io/inspektor-gadget/gadget/deadlock:%IG_TAG%
RUNTIME.CONTAINERNAME      COMM                  PID        TID MUTEX_ADDR        OPERATION
hungry_turing              test                23148      23148 0x7FED1243EA58    lock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23148 0x7FED1243EA58    unlock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23237 0x5612ABB33160    lock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23237 0x5612ABB331A0    lock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23237 0x5612ABB331A0    unlock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23237 0x5612ABB33160    unlock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23148 0x7FED1243EA58    lock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23148 0x7FED1243EA58    unlock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23239 0x5612ABB331A0    lock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23239 0x5612ABB331E0    lock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23239 0x5612ABB331E0    unlock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23239 0x5612ABB331A0    unlock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23148 0x7FED1243EA58    lock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23148 0x7FED1243EA58    unlock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23240 0x5612ABB331E0    lock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23240 0x7FFDC68BEB80    lock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23240 0x7FFDC68BEB80    unlock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23240 0x5612ABB331E0    unlock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23148 0x7FED1243EA58    lock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23148 0x7FED1243EA58    unlock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23241 0x7FFDC68BEB80    lock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23241 0x5612ABB33160    lock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23241 0x5612ABB33160    unlock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23241 0x7FFDC68BEB80    unlock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23148 0x7FED1243EA08    lock
hungry_turing              test                23148      23148 0x7FED1243EA08    unlock
```
